# MATLAB-Thermal_Data_Digital_Signal_Processing

Digital thermometers are devices that have a temperature sensor that converts thermal 
energy into a numerical value that can be interpreted by the user. Figure 14 in Appendix A shows a diagram of a basic digital thermometer. There are 2 main types of temperature sensors commonly used in digital thermometers: thermistors and thermocouples. Thermistors work by a variation of resistance. A change in temperature will cause a change in resistance. If the thermistor has a negative coefficient, a decrease in temperature will cause a decrease in resistance. Similarly, with a positive coefficient, an increase in temperature will cause an increase in resistance.Thermocouple sensors have 2 metal wires made of different metals. The voltage between the two metals will change depending on the temperature. Both of these sensors have their pros and cons that must be evaluated when deciding between them to make a thermometer. 
In this project, we built build a circuit with a thermocouple sensor to make a thermometer. With the circuit built, we learned to calibrate it to accurately record temperature. Using the oscilloscope, we observed the system response, gain and SNR and record the data for further filtering and analysis.

The circuit built can be observed on Figure 7 and circuit digram on Figure 8 of report and utilizes mercury thermometer, thermocouple, oscilloscope, voltage source, resistor, AD620 op-amp, breadboard, and jumpter wires.

We conducted 4 experiments for project. Experiment 1 consisted of calibrating the 
thermometer which was necessary to provide a reference point when calculating the unknown body temperature and ensuring accurate readings. From figure 9, the measured voltage is 0.44 V at 36 ℃ and -1.58 V at 6 ℃. The linear calibration curve and equation was generated to show the relationship between Voltage (V) and Temperature (℃). There is a positive relationship between voltage and temperature, specifically, as temperature increased, the voltage increased. The calibration curve and equation then are applied to find the unknown body temperature based on the voltage measurements in the next three experiments.

In conclusion, the higher the voltage measured, the higher the resulting body temperature.Even though there are differences in the voltages produced, the difference in response time was not significant. Aside from that, although experiments 2 to 4 are conducted with the same procedure, the collected results are still having slight differences compared to each other. The differences in the data could be due to the speed of data collection and the surrounding temperature could affect the measurement. Therefore, it can be concluded that in a confined and stable temperature environment, the collected data will have small relative errors compared to the normal human body temperature. By conducting experiments in the environment that have plenty of unstable and uncontrollable factors, the collected data may produce the undesirable 
results with a considerable number of errors within them.
